h1. Here some hints on howto use htmlgrid

Some loose thougt by one of the few programmers using Htmlgrid.

One of the projects using Htmlgrid is "oddb.org":https://github.com/zdavatz/oddb.org. There you find many examples on how to use it.

HtmlGrid offers for almost any HTML entity a corresponding class. When generating a view, it is easy to reorder the item, adding/deleting/filtering them.

Many view are constructed by simply setting constants like COMPONENTS, CSS_MAP. A simple example is the view for "password_lost":https://github.com/zdavatz/oddb.org/blob/master/src/view/admin/password_lost.rb.

To see how it works go to "http://ch.oddb.org/de/gcc/password_lost/":http://ch.oddb.org/de/gcc/password_lost/. When looking at the source code keep in mind the following conventions:
* a component which is a Symbol is rendered by calling to_s of the same methods of the model class or by a method of the with the same name
* a component which is a String is lookup up in the @session.lookandfeel (a language dependent Hash of symbols and their translation)
* CSS_MAP are used to override the default CSS_CLASS
* Mixing in AJAX and Javascript can be tricky, but is possible

h2. Things to consider and useful constants

Many aspects can be simply modified by changing one or more of the constants. Here is an overview to get you looking into the right directions

* inherited vom AbstractComposite
** LABELS = false
** SYMBOL_MAP
** CSS_MAP
** CSS_ID_MAP
** CSS_STYLE_MAP
** CSS_CLASS
** CSS_ID
** DEFAULT_CLASS
** LOOKANDFEEL_MAP
* inherited from Composite
** COLSPAN_MAP
** COMPONENT_CSS_MAP
** VERTICAL
* inherited from Component
** CSS_ID = nil
** HTML_ATTRIBUTES = {}
** HTTP_HEADERS = {
** LABEL = false
* inherited from CenteredComposite
** TABLE_ATTRIBUTES
** DIV_ATTRIBUTES
* inherited from List
** BACKGROUND_ROW
** BACKGROUND_SUFFIX = '-bg'
** CSS_HEAD_MAP
** DEFAULT_HEAD_CLASS
** EMPTY_LIST
** EMPTY_LIST_KEY = :empty_list
** OFFSET_STEP = [0,1]
** OMIT_HEADER
** OMIT_HEAD_TAG
** SORT_DEFAULT = :to_s
** SORT_HEADER  # Allows one to supress the headers when displaying list
** SORT_REVERSE
** STRIPED_BG
* inherited from TemplateMethods
** CONTENT
** FOOT
** HEAD
** META_TAGS
** CSS_FILES
** JAVASCRIPTS
* inherited from form
** AUTOFILL = false
** ACCEPT_CHARSET = $KCODE == 'UTF8' ? 'UTF-8' : 'ISO-8859-1'
** EVENT = nil
** FORM_ACTION = nil
** FORM_METHOD = 'POST'
** FORM_NAME = 'stdform'
** TAG_METHOD  = :form
